# GameOfLife

## How to Grade / Run
All the code I wrote for the application is in:  
`core/src/main/java/com/GameOfLife`  
and in  
`lwjgl3/src/main/java/com/GameOfLife/lwjgl3/Lwjgl3Launcher.java`

Everything else is related to the library or build pipeline for libGDX.

---

**To run, you can either:**

- Run a `.jar`  
- Run a `.app` bundle  
- Or compile it yourself

---

A compiled `.jar` and `.app` can be found in the `finalBuild` folder.

The compiled `.app` bundle, which should have a JDK bundled with it, is found in the `finalBuild` folder.  
The `.app` file is actually a folder — you can look inside it to find the `.jar` if you want to run that instead.  
However, `.app` bundles can't be run with program arguments.

---

`.jar` files will have to be run from the command line to use program arguments.  
Without program arguments, the app will choose a random pattern.

To run a `.jar` on Mac:

```bash
java -jar -XstartOnFirstThread [JarName].jar [arguments]
```

---

The program can simulate from any of the given patterns  
(although "Elemtary Knightship" was changed to "elementaryknightship").

I recommend one of the first two for reliability.

---

**If you want to compile and run yourself, clone the git repository to IntelliJ and:**

- Use the existing **RunDesktop** run configuration in `.idea/runConfigurations`  
  OR  
- Create a new run configuration, choose **Application**  
  - The main class is in  
    `lwjgl3/src/main/java/com/GameOfLife/lwjgl3/Lwjgl3Launcher.java`  
  - Add the VM argument `-XstartOnFirstThread` if you're on Mac — *essential*  
  - Then run it — Gradle should be preinstalled with IntelliJ and be able to use the already-defined Gradle scripts to build and run the project.

## Cool Features to Try Out

It also has different styles, which control how the cells look. You can set the style by passing in -style "style here" from the command line, or by using the drop-down selector.
The available styles are default, seaLantern, redstone, and moss.

Finally, you can use arrow keys or click-and-drag to pan, and the +/- keys to zoom in or out to get a better look at things.


## Autogenerated from Setup Tool—Can Ignore Unless Curious
A [libGDX](https://libgdx.com/) project generated with [gdx-liftoff](https://github.com/libgdx/gdx-liftoff).

This project was generated with a template including simple application launchers and an `ApplicationAdapter` extension that draws libGDX logo.

### Platforms

- `core`: Main module with the application logic shared by all platforms.
- `lwjgl3`: Primary desktop platform using LWJGL3; was called 'desktop' in older docs.

### Gradle

This project uses [Gradle](https://gradle.org/) to manage dependencies.
The Gradle wrapper was included, so you can run Gradle tasks using `gradlew.bat` or `./gradlew` commands.
Useful Gradle tasks and flags:

- `--continue`: when using this flag, errors will not stop the tasks from running.
- `--daemon`: thanks to this flag, Gradle daemon will be used to run chosen tasks.
- `--offline`: when using this flag, cached dependency archives will be used.
- `--refresh-dependencies`: this flag forces validation of all dependencies. Useful for snapshot versions.
- `build`: builds sources and archives of every project.
- `cleanEclipse`: removes Eclipse project data.
- `cleanIdea`: removes IntelliJ project data.
- `clean`: removes `build` folders, which store compiled classes and built archives.
- `eclipse`: generates Eclipse project data.
- `idea`: generates IntelliJ project data.
- `lwjgl3:jar`: builds application's runnable jar, which can be found at `lwjgl3/build/libs`.
- `lwjgl3:run`: starts the application.
- `test`: runs unit tests (if any).

Note that most tasks that are not specific to a single project can be run with `name:` prefix, where the `name` should be replaced with the ID of a specific project.
For example, `core:clean` removes `build` folder only from the `core` project.
